
PDFlib Lite License Agreement

PDFlib GmbH (Licensor), Tal 40, 80331 Munich, Germany
phone +49 · 89 · 29 16 46 87, fax +49 · 89 · 29 16 46 86
sales@pdflib.com, support@pdflib.com, www.pdflib.com

Note: this license is substantially different than the license for other
products of PDFlib GmbH. This license does not cover products other than those
mentioned in section 1.


1 Definitions

This agreement defines the licensing terms for the software product called
PDFlib Lite 5.0.3. This product will be referred to as »the program« in this
agreement. The program is a copyrighted work whose copyright is held by the
licensor.

The program is delivered with a digital manual which describes its programming
features and their usage (»the documentation«). »Programming samples« shall
mean the sample code which demonstrates use of the program, and which is part
of the distribution. »Original distribution» shall mean the set of all files
comprising the source code package for the program as made available by
licensor.

The term »integrated product« shall be used in this agreement to designate any
product that is made up of both the program and software or hardware developed
or marketed by any other individual or organization. Integrated product shall
mean all components which are required to make reasonable use of the aggregate
software, even if such components are not directly attached to the program. For
example, if integrated product is a virtual printer driver integrated product
means the complete operating system; if integrated product is a word processor
integrated product means the full word processor plus auxiliary components; if
integrated product is a Web application integrated product means all components
for retrieving, processing, and presenting data. (This is not an exhaustive
enumeration.)

By using, modifying or distributing the program (or any work based on the
program), you indicate your acceptance of this license to do so, and all its
terms and conditions for using, copying, distributing or modifying the program
or works based on it. Nothing other than this license grants you permission to
use, modify or distribute the program or its derivative works. These actions
are prohibited by law. If you do not accept these terms and conditions, do not
use, modify or distribute the program.


2 Using the Program

Functional use (running) of the program requires a commercial license which is
outside the scope of this agreement. However, exempt users listed below are
granted a world-wide, royalty-free, non-exclusive license to use the program.

2.1 Open Source Developer Exemption
Use of the program as part of an integrated product is exempt from commercial
licensing provided the integrated product is available under a license which
has been approved by the Open Source Initiative OSI (www.opensource.org),
complete source code for the integrated product is available to anyone free of
charge, and the availability of source code is announced on a publicly
accessible Web site. Source code means the preferred machine-readable form in
which a programmer would modify the software.

2.2 Private non-Profit User Exemption
Non-profit uses of the program by a private individual are exempt from
commercial licensing. For-profit use by individuals and non-profit use by
organizations do not fall under this exemption.

2.3 Educational and Research Exemption
Use of the program by educational institutions and individuals for educational
and research purposes is exempt from commercial licensing. Other uses (e.g.,
administrative) by educational institutions do not fall under this exemption.


3 Redistribution

Redistribution in binary or source form by a commercial organization to any
third party are permitted provided that all of the following conditions are
met. Redistributing the program under these conditions does not necessarily
give the recipient the right to use the program; using the program is always
subject to the conditions in section 2.

3.1 Modifications
If you have modified the program, you must include prominent notices in stating
that you have modified the program’s files, your name, your e-mail address (if
any) and the date and purpose of any change.

PDF files generated with the program must include the same Producer entry in
the document info field as those generated with the original (unmodified)
program. Changing the Producer entry renders this license invalid.

3.2 Source Code Redistribution
Redistributions of source code must include all files which are part of the
original distribution. Omitting one or more files would result in a
distribution which is not compliant with this license.

3.3 Binary Redistribution
Redistributions in binary (compiled) form must include this license, the
documentation, and programming samples. Not all programming samples must be
included, but only the samples for programming languages which are actually
supported by the binary distribution. As an alternative to including the
documentation in a binary distribution, the documentation may also be made
available separately for free download on the Internet in unmodified form. This
»download« exception does not apply to other files which are part of the
original distribution.


4 Reservation of Rights

No rights are granted to the program except as expressly set forth herein. You
may not use, copy, modify, sublicense, or distribute the program except as
expressly provided under this license. Any attempt otherwise to copy, modify,
sublicense or distribute the program is void, and will automatically terminate
your rights under this license.


5 Warranty

The program is provided to you »as is«, without warranty. There is no warranty
for the program, either expressed or implied, including, but not limited to,
the implied warranties of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose
and non-infringement of third party rights. The entire risk as to the quality
and performance of the program is with you. Should the program prove defective,
you assume the cost of all necessary servicing, repair or correction.

In no event unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing will
licensor, or any other party who may modify and/or redistribute the program as
permitted above, be liable to you for damages, including any general, special,
incidental or consequential damages arising out of the use or inability to use
the program (including but not limited to loss of data or data being rendered
inaccurate or losses sustained by you or third parties or a failure of the
program to operate with any other programs), even if such holder or other party
has been advised of the possibility of such damages.


6 General

This license is governed by the laws of Germany, excluding choice of law rules.
If any part of this license is found to be in conflict with the law, that part
shall be interpreted in its broadest meaning consistent with the law, and no
other parts of the license shall be affected.




PDFlib Lite License Agreement (created January 21, 2004)
(Converted from PDF to text via Google Quick View)
